From the first design sketches to the winter test in Barcelona, ​​it takes about 12 months to build a Formula One car. Here we will follow the story of the birth of the Formula One car in four parts with a close look, by the technical director of Renault chassis, Mr. Nick Chester.

According to an anatomist, a Formula One machine consists of approximately 20,000 pieces. When put together, we see the realization of a conceptual model and the embodiment of a creative idea.

Chester says:

It starts with a concept idea in mind to make the final product, it takes more than a year to build a Formula One car and it may take about 14 months. The issue of time very much depends on the amount of change applied to the main concept.

Before this complex puzzle can be put together into a final product, the Formula One team must understand the main parts of the changes in the direction of the Formula One car design path.

Chester adds:

When you have a set period of time with specific rules, you start designing your current car as the first base.

You probably know exactly what your weaknesses are in the car. For example, a car cooling system is not ideal. So as a new part, you start designing and trying to show where the problematic and weak part of the car is.

You aim for more freedom in aerodynamics, especially in R&D, which is one of the main structural parts of the car. For example, you change the size or shape of a part of the car for better and more development of the car.
Adaptation to parallel processes
The big mistake is to think that the aerodynamics department of a Formula One car is completely isolated from the rest of the design departments of the Formula One team, doing the body design, leaving all its colleagues with a structure to connect all the components of the car. No, Formula One car design is all about collaboration and versatility.

In this regard, Nick Chester says:

There are many parallel processes together. Car aerodynamic engineers work on the shape of the body and try to select and build the best aerodynamic package. Maybe they have a specific idea or concept in mind how to change the structure of air movement on the body, and think about how to design a specific shape to achieve a specific goal.

In these parallel processes, we work with the team of engineers of Viry ر Renault's engine factory in France} on the engine package and how to place its components together and on the chassis, in a better way than a light car at the same time Now let's make it completely in accordance with aerodynamics. Thus, many ideas and discussions take place between the team of Viri engineers and EnstoneRenault 

As a special example, for example, a gas tank weighs about 105 kg per race and occupies a certain volume. Chassis and engine engineers must work together to make the best possible design for the rear of the fuel tank, as the hot parts of the V6 engine can not be placed next to it or even protected in any way. . This means that the best idea is to have a certain ratio of length and width, 
a large gas tank can affect the design of air conditioners or even the aerodynamics of the car. For example, by increasing the energy produced by the energy recovery system (ERS), its temperature can be controlled in smaller radiators and help to better control car drag.
Mystery
As soon as the overall concept of the car is received, the main strategists start choosing the shape of the fuel tank, engine sizes, gearbox length and size, the specific shape of the suspension, and so on. Of course, these decisions must be read in accordance with the permitted technical rules of Formula One (in fact, such as weight, specified length between the wheels, etc.), as well as aerodynamics must include certain factors. 
In particular, the whole mechanical package of the car has a decisive role in the effect of the aerodynamic coefficient of the car.

In terms of factory production, the preparation of each specific part of the car must be done before the other, for example, the engine must be designed before the body and placed in the car. Inevitably, the production of internal parts of machine components takes time. Even when you need several examples of car suspension during the winter test.

The Renault chief engineer says:

The design of the car gearbox is one of the initial processes of your concept design, because you have to be six months ahead and think about the whole engine package at the same time, and also design and select the suspension system and the length of the wheels. We can try to put all the parallel processes together so that we can use all the components together to build the machine at a given time.

In this race it is time for you to build a Formula One car, preparing a strategic plan of the necessities of working in such a system.

Stay with us.

Build a Formula One car
* It is better to know that the technical rules do not include any specific lines or sizes for the design of each section. Otherwise all the machines could be the same.
Instead, the rules book lists sections for engineers to design different parts and components of the machine. In summary, in Article 3.7.1, the front fins of a car are marked with a rectangular cube by four lines, and this is where engineers talk about legal boxes or surveillance areas.
