From the first design sketches to the winter test in Barcelona, it takes about 12 months to build a Formula One car. Here we will follow the story of the birth of a Formula One car in four parts with a close look, by Renault technical director Mr. Nick Chester.
From design to production
Once parts are formed and their level of rigidity is determined, teams need to transform digital objects into manufactured objects. This is where the IT part comes into play and creates a slight change between the design team and the construction team. With CAD software, teams can use electronic devices to create a three-dimensional design of a machine that includes tangible features, including the actual sizes of machine parts that are supposed to complement the Formula One machine together.

Creating a large database of designed parts and a comprehensive file can include how the production process is done by computer-aided manufacturing software known as CAM, as well as preparing another file that includes a computer numerical control program, or CNC machine tool.

Precisely, this comprehensive computer file can program how to operate and move in the direction of producing machine parts. This file shows and follows the cutting lines of the parts in the production process or specifies a pattern for the composite material. Subsequent patterns are also used to produce carbon material to produce the final shape and final product.
Where to start?
If we look closely at a formula machine, it is generally divided into three main parts:

1- Chassis (which includes chassis and body connection parts, fuel tank, front suspension system), engine package and finally the driving system (which includes gearbox and rear suspension system). The connectors of these three parts include the car body, the insole, the front and rear wings, the engine cooling system, and so on.

But where can a Formula One team start?

Nick Chester adds:

Chassis and gearbox are the first elements that a team goes to build. Then they go to the front and rear suspension and fins, and finally to the construction of the car body, which also includes the engine cover. In addition to these production processes, we also provide electronic and electrical parts for the machine.

Then in October (late October and early November) we see how all the components are connected. As we do this with software, we also go through these steps physically. We also find the best way to place the electronic and electrical system next to the car's hydraulic system. Then we import them all into CAD computer software and physically examine how they fit together in that software. This is where you need to start the chassis.

Production is an old trend
The shell, body parts and wings of the car are all cut from thin sheets of carbon fiber, molded and laminated, which is done in a mold before being formed in a hot oven. Let's take a look at these carbon fiber parts.

Carbon fiber is a delicate and delicate material that can be used, as a Formula One engineer I have to look at the thickness and deformation of a piece when it is coated. This is because errors and even deformations can occur in the smoothness and uniformity of the part, and for this reason, engineers and specialists use special software to communicate between 3D software and the manufacturing workshop. The software automatically prepares specific instructions and sends them to the Composite Materials Production Department step by step. In the same way, the design should be more optimized and the construction plan should be updated immediately.
Software can identify unforeseen problems in the production of parts and send these messages to the designer immediately. In short, they can identify and show wrinkles or cracks that occur in carbon fiber sheets. This allows Formula One engineers and designers to review the product they have produced before it is introduced to the team, avoid unforeseen problems and breakdowns, and save time and money.
Generate a design
A piece of carbon fiber, such as a car body, the production process begins as a complete design. CAD software information is sent to a five-way CNC machine to make the designed model as a block of epoxy resin (a large number of blocks can be used to make a single part).

The Aston Renault plant recently used new equipment, a multi-purpose car, purchased from Burton. A massive 7-meter device can produce both the car floor and its body at the same time. On an epoxy resin model, a large number of layers of carbon fiber are used and placed in the furnace to form the original shape. This is thanks to a complex multi-part process.
Production of parts
Once the original mold has been produced, the relevant part can be produced, which requires the precise and correct use of carbon fiber sheets to fill and form the mold. A laser system helps engineers measure the exact location of bends and the placement of surfaces.

After this part, the laminated components are placed in an empty bag and are still inside the mold until they are in the oven. Formula One factories typically use two or three furnaces to produce their parts under high pressure and temperature.

In order to strengthen and strengthen the parts, they are placed in a structure. This structure has a honeycomb shape and is made of a kind of aluminum alloy that is placed as a sandwich panel between two composites. The location of the parts stiffeners is located in the center of the honeycomb (for short, for greater strength of the suspension system), stronger composites or metal materials are used to increase the amount of force applied to the part.

For more complex parts that require assembling and assembling multiple parts and components, Formula One teams use a set of detailed instructions to connect and glue them together. For the main body of the car cockpit, after connecting the internal parts and its end part, the upper and lower parts should be placed next to each other to get its general shape.

In the end, the empty parts of the connection must be strengthened, the electronic wiring must be done, all of which are planned and produced, all depending on the original computer file created, and without which it would not be possible.
Crash Test
The cockpit of a Formula One car is designed to pass crash tests that are performed in a variety of ways.

The various methods of these tests are performed according to the instructions provided and specific protocols by the World Automobile Federation. These tests are performed partly in the factory and the other part in the approved centers of the FIA ​​quality control unit. These centers include the CRANFIELD IMPACT CENTER, the TRANSPORT RESEARCH LABORATORY and the CSI LABORATORY IN MILAN.

Says Nick Chester:

In the case of the Renault Formula One team, these tests are performed at Anston and Cranfield. Static tests took place at Anston and dynamic tests took place at Cranfield.
Installation
At a time when all twenty thousand pieces were produced and manufactured. Construction of Formula One cars begins.

Nick Chester added:

It takes about two weeks to build the machine when all the parts are available. Designers and team engineers tell the mechanics how to connect the parts (eg chassis, suspension, gearbox). Some parts take several weeks to assemble, including gearboxes and some more complex parts.
Finally, in order to better control all the parts under construction of the car, Formula One teams, after its complete completion on the day of the promotional filming, will start examining the function of different parts according to the existing rules.

This is usually the time of the first machine tests on a filming day that lasts several days.

The first chassis used in the car will be tested when moving to Barcelona for pre-season testing. The second chassis is under construction at the factory and will be used in the first race of the year in Australia. The required spare parts are also produced in winter, but in limited quantities because the aerodynamically used parts of the car are to be prepared first.

Due to the three months between Formula One racing seasons, the process in Formula One teams is never stopped, and at the end of the tests, engineers are always thinking about the next chassis and the next season.
