From the first design sketches to the winter test in Barcelona, it takes about 12 months to build a Formula One car. Here we will follow the story of the birth of the Formula One car in four parts with a close look, by the technical director of Renault Chassis, Mr. Nick Chester.
Stable update
After the conceptual ideas of the work are presented, the main challenge in the design phase is to set up and manage several parallel processes together, each of which involves a specific part of the machine. For the progress of the project, the coordination of different processes in each section is required and the whole project depends on this coordination.

For example, when engineers are working on a car transmission and we are studying the aerodynamic effects, we can summarize: If in a certain part of the car, such as the rear diffuser, we make changes in its design so that we can power To produce more down (Danforce), is it possible to install the car power transmission system in the space created without damaging the effective components?

Nick Chester adds:

Determining an ideal design process and a codified build plan is a huge task.

During this process you may either discover potential problems or discover new solutions.

You may have a new opportunity and an interesting idea to change the car's aerodynamics by stopping the production of a part, or you may create unnecessary delays by changing the design of a part of the car.

You should update your schedule as soon as possible. You need to manage time so that you do not lag behind the expected construction time of the car and prepare the car on time. This is a very hard and difficult task.

You have to control and monitor the various steps, and it all depends on where you are in this complex production process. There are many components at production time that you can change, and there are other components that are too late to change.

For example, last season at Silverstone we introduced a new insole that helped us a lot in adjusting the suspension. We also know that a number of this year's designs can be applied as possible options in next year's car, and we must also answer the question very soon whether there can be huge changes in the car design idea? Because this is what makes the situation very difficult and complicated.
Where to start

When the cars are unveiled in February and the winter test arrives, the team's engineers are all ready for future designs.

Next year 's car design process typically begins with the pre - season test of the previous year. So, in the beginning of the 2017 season, we will start deciding on the 2018 car, and for some things, we will even start discussing them a little earlier. Because doing some things, like building an engine package, starts much earlier and the early stages of design take shape sooner.

In the case of the engine package, for example, there are small issues that have a huge impact on the car chassis. So if you want engine engineers to have enough time, we need to give them more time, and this process should start from October 2016 for 2018. Therefore, in order to divide the resources, preparations must be made from June 2017, and the works related to 2017 must be set aside and we can move on to 2018. For this reason, we will gather more people in June for next year's project.
Adaptive process
Designing a Formula 1 car is an adaptive process. An engineer has to look at different parts of a concept to be able to discover and search for all the new ideas and strategies. Formula One teams use CFD-computational fluid dynamics programming fluid dynamics to observe the aerodynamic effects of the vehicle before building the initial model and then applying it to the model in the wind tunnel. This process is repeated many times to create different shapes and volumes.

The mechanical components of the machine are also subjected to various tests in a row for hardness and rigidity tests to ensure their strength. The last changes and comments on the car chassis are usually done in late summer. When they have finished designing the machine on the important parts, now they have to bring the various components to the production stage, which is a requirement of the third part of the story of making a Formula 1 machine.
